hello everyone today I'll be sharing you
guys my tips for you at Cambridge
interview now I applied to the
University of Cambridge for law so most
of my tips are coming from that subject
area but don't worry I think you can
apply them to any subject area now my
first tip is to read for the structure
of the course and read for it very
carefully make sure that if you
understand what the different modules of
their course are in what kind of part is
divided so that when they ask you about
your motivation to study the course you
can really give them a very specific
answer and tell them these other things
I'm interested in that shows them that
you have really researched at three or
four year degree that you're signing up
for because you don't want to sound like
a person who is just like yeah you know
I want to be there for three years old I
don't really know what I'm gonna do for
these three years because that would be
kind of weird now tip number two is to
watch a sample interview at best what's
that sample interview for your subject
area if there is no sample interview for
your subject area it can still help to
watch sample interviews from other
subject areas because it just gives you
an idea of the setting and what kind of
questions are asked and you know how
they may ask back when you give an
answer and stuff like that and it just
calms your nerves down now there is a
sample interview for though I'm gonna
link it in the description box below and
we're supposed to by the University of
Cambridge so it's an official source and
um it is by no means a perfect example
like they don't tell you if that
interview was really good or really bad
but to me it just helped knowing what
kind of questions are gonna come what is
the setting gonna be like and what I
should prepare for now so don't forget
that there can be a written test to your
admissions process below there is a
written test at Cambridge and there is a
sample of that written test
uploaded by the University of Cambridge
I'm gonna link that in the description
box below as well now of course you're
not gonna get the same questions as in a
sample test but you get an idea of what
kind of questions are asked how could
you structure your answers to those
questions and how much time should you
allocate to each part of the essay when
answering the question you can also ask
your University against cancer to mark a
mock answer to the practice test but of
course they also don't know
specific marking criteria so you know
you can try that but I'm not sure how
effective it's gonna be at the end of
the day but they can still give you
really good feedback on your structure
and how clear you are in your answer now
my first tip and this is probably the
most important one read up on your
subject you should really know what you
want to study and you know you should
have a bit of an insight into that now
they don't expect you to be an expert
because you're going to university to
become an expert in your subject but
they want to see that you're interested
in the subject so recent books read some
journals
related to your subject now I was mainly
interested in international public law
so I read books and journals related to
that if you guys want to know my
personal statement where I wrote about
that interest you can hand me in for
button above and it's gonna take you to
that video now having a few samples of
the kind of books I read to give you get
an idea of you know what you could read
and how you can prepare so here's this
book and this is German college ID this
is the only German book yet reserved
English and this one's about the
Nuremberg Laws so I wrote about the
nerve across in my personal statement so
it was a good idea to you know just get
a little bit of a background now don't
get me wrong I didn't read this entire
book like no I've given the introduction
I think I read through like a few pages
in one chapter and that was it then I
also read a little bit of introduction
to international relations I also was a
global politics students so I already
had a pretty good idea about like
relations between states but friends
national public law politics is
important so you don't wanna be this
person who doesn't really know and have
intergovernmental organizations work or
how relations between states can affect
their commitment to international law
because those are pretty basic things
that you know an easy school book can
teach you and then I also had a really
big book genocide the international law
now the reason why I picked a book on
genocide is because I did a course at
Stanford summer school called genocide
and humanitarian intervention and I
wrote about it in my personal statement
so they had a good reason to expect me
to know quite a bit on genocide and
genocide in international law so I want
to make sure that I'm an expert on that
because they could have asked me about
it and now I didn't read this entire
book okay once again I read pretty
introduction
then I read through one chapter which
was about the definition of genocide
because that's a pretty important point
on regarding genocide law but the rest
you know I didn't read it because you
can't manage to read like 100 journals
before you interview you just don't get
notified early enough for your interview
so you know you can't really do that so
make sure that you know you read a lot
but you're smart about how you reach it
because very often you can get the main
point of a reading from the introduction
or the abstract and that's enough so I
would highly recommend you know being
smart about that because reading it like
500 pages books it's nice but you know
it's not necessarily gonna help you at
the end of the day your interview is
only 20 minutes long so you won't have
time to recite the entire book anyway
now make sure that your readings relate
to your personal statement because they
will probably ask questions about the
specific aspect of the course and you
are interested in according to your
personal statement so make sure you know
that part and that you know what you
said in your personal statement now when
you've done all those readings and now
you're an expert on the thing then
record yourself answering some questions
now what do I mean by that well think
about what questions they could come up
with based on the sample interview you
watch and that answered them and just
record yourself with your phone why
because then you hear how you sound when
you answer a question
so do you sound coherent is your answer
formulated well is it clear what you are
trying to say do you explain your
thought process as well because they
really want to know how you think they
want to see the different steps you make
when thinking through a problem so
listen to your answer and think about it
do I show that to them do they really
understand how I came to that conclusion
or is that not clear because if it's not
try to answer it again and answer it
again and again until you start
answering questions in a way where it's
very clear for the person which steps
you made in your thought process how you
arrive to your conclusion and how you
justify your conclusion and if you hit
those points then it will be really easy
for your interviewers to understand what
you try and bring across and you will
see
very articulate which is always good now
my last tip is to do a sample interview
with university guidance counselor
now university guidance counselors have
a lot of experience with people applying
to Oxbridge and they often also have
sample material of the questions asked
in interviews and the tests so they can
really help you also evaluate how good
you are answering questions when you're
in front of somebody rather than just
recording yourself and you know they can
also give you tips on how to prepare a
little bit more if you lack in a
specific area so I would highly
recommend reaching out to your
university guidance counselor and asking
them for help I know my university
guidance counselor did a sample
interview for me and it was super
helpful like her sample interview was a
lot harder than an actual interview but
that just helped because then I did the
actual interview and it was just so much
less scary that it would have been
without the sample interview see I don't
know my tips for a successful interview
at the University of Cambridge if you
guys have any questions about my
application to Cambridge feel free to
drop them in the comments below or send
me a message for the contact section off
my blog which is linked below thank you
guys so much for watching I hope you
guys enjoyed this video bye